MR-2592: LaunchDarkly unit testing docs (#1426)
CMSgov/managed-care-review: docs/technical-design/launch-darkly-testing-approach.md

> These implementations are heavily relent on the data and generated Types in `flags.ts` located in `app-web/src/common-code/featureFlags`. This is done for several reasons:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These implementations are heavily reliant on the data and generated Types in `flags.ts` located in `app-web/src/common-code/featureFlags`. This is done for several reasons:
```

Reviewer 2: I really like the choice to move this to the top for conceptual grounding ⭐

- Centralize feature flag lists so when adding new flags it only needs to be done once.

> - Auto generated Types based on the feature flag list help removes the need to update types manually and throughout the codebase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Auto generated Types based on the feature flag list help remove the need to update types manually and throughout the codebase.
```

- Autocompletion of flag parameters to prevent mistakes and invalid flags when using the implementations.

### Prerequisites for local testing
Before testing locally, make sure to have the following prerequisites.

> - **Launch Darkly API key**: A valid Launch Darkly API key will need to be in your `.envrc.local`, see code block below. Cypress will be making the actual request to Launch Darkly, we will just be intercepting the response. If we had an invalid key here, the request to would return a 404 before we could intercept the response. **This will cause the integration to break in testing.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Launch Darkly API key**: A valid Launch Darkly API key will need to be in your `.envrc.local`, see code block below. Cypress will be making the actual request to Launch Darkly, we will just be intercepting the response. If we had an invalid key here, the request would return a 404 before we could intercept the response, **which would cause the integration to break in testing.**
```

> - **Launch Darkly API key**: A valid Launch Darkly API key will need to be in your `.envrc.local`, see code block below. Cypress will be making the actual request to Launch Darkly, we will just be intercepting the response. If we had an invalid key here, the request to would return a 404 before we could intercept the response. **This will cause the integration to break in testing.**

Reviewer: We should probably mention where to find these keys; it's not always obvious in the LaunchDarkly UI.

Author: Done!

    ldUseClientSpy({ 'rates-across-submissions': true })
    const mockUpdateDraftFn = jest.fn()
    renderWithProviders(
        <RateDetails
            draftSubmission={emptyRateDetailsDraft}
            updateDraft={mockUpdateDraftFn}
            previousDocuments={[]}
        />,
        {
            apolloProvider: {
                mocks: [fetchCurrentUserMock({ statusCode: 200 })],
            },
        }
    )
  
    ...
})
```

To configure multiple tests inside a `describe` block you can: 
- Follow the method for single test on each test inside the `describe`.
- If all the tests require the same flag configuration place `ldUseClientSpy` at the top of the block in `beforeEach()`.

```javascript
describe('rates across submissions', () => {
    beforeEach(() =>
        ldUseClientSpy({
          'rates-across-submissions': true,
        })
    )
    afterEach(() => {
        jest.clearAllMocks()
    })
  
    ...
})
```

It's always best to `jest.clearAllMocks()` after each test with either one of these methods, otherwise, preceding tests may have the same flag configured as the previous test.

### Server side unit testing

> LaunchDarkly server side implementation is done with configuring our resolvers with `ldService` dependency. In our resolver we then can use the method `getFeatureFlag` from `ldService` to get the flag value from LaunchDarkly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LaunchDarkly server side implementation is done by configuring our resolvers with the `ldService` dependency. In our resolver we then can use the method `getFeatureFlag` from `ldService` to get the flag value from LaunchDarkly.
```

The unit testing implementation uses a test version of the `ldService` dependency called `testLDService` located in `app-api/src/testHelpers/launchDarklyHelpers.ts`. 

> `testLDService` takes in an object of feature flags and values as an argument which is used to return flag value when `getFeatureFlag` is called in a resolver. If no feature flag object is passed in, then the function will return default values generated from `flags.ts` located in `app-web/src/common-code/featureFlags`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`testLDService` takes in an object of feature flags and values as an argument which is used to return the flag value when `getFeatureFlag` is called in a resolver. If no feature flag object is passed in, then the function will return default values generated from `flags.ts` located in `app-web/src/common-code/featureFlags`.
```

```typescript
  function testLDService(
      mockFeatureFlags?: Partial<FeatureFlagObject>
  ): LDService {
      const featureFlags = defaultFeatureFlags

      //Update featureFlags with mock flag values.
      if (mockFeatureFlags) {
        for (const flag in mockFeatureFlags) {
          const featureFlag = flag as FeatureFlagTypes
          featureFlags[featureFlag] = mockFeatureFlags[
                  featureFlag
                  ] as FlagValueTypes
        }
      }

      return {
        getFeatureFlag: async (user, flag) => featureFlags[flag],
      }
  }
```

> We then pass `testLDService` with our defined flag values into `constructTestPostgresServer` when setting up test server. Resolvers in the test will now use `testLDService` when calling `getFeatureFlag` returning our defined feature flag values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We then pass `testLDService` with our defined flag values into `constructTestPostgresServer` when setting up the test server. Resolvers in the test will now use `testLDService` when calling `getFeatureFlag`, returning our defined feature flag values.
```

```javascript
it('does not error when risk based question is undefined and rate-cert-assurance feature flag is off', async () => {
    const mockLDService = testLDService({'rate-cert-assurance': false})
    const server = await constructTestPostgresServer({ 
      ldService: mockLDService,
    })

    // setup
    const initialPkg = await createAndUpdateTestHealthPlanPackage(server, {
      riskBasedContract: undefined,
    })
  
    ...
})
```

## Feature Flag Cypress Testing
Currently, there is no out of the box Cypress integration with LaunchDarkly. Our implementation approach enables the testing of multiple flag values independent of what is set in LaunchDarkly by intercepting api calls and returning our own generated flag values. This allows us to dynamically tests UI in Cypress with different flag values without having to modify flag values in the LaunchDarkly dashboard.

### Limitations

> There is one major limitation to this implementation, server and client side flag value syncing in Cypress runs. Since we are not reaching out to LaunchDarkly to either retrieve or set a flag value the server side does not know we have changed a flags value. In this scenario the same flag would be in different states between client and server. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is one major limitation to this implementation: server and client side flag value syncing in Cypress runs. Since we are not reaching out to LaunchDarkly to either retrieve or set a flag value the server side does not know we have changed a flag's value. In this scenario the same flag would be in different states between client and server. 
```

For example, we have some logic on the server side that checks a submission for completion on a new field. This check is behind a feature flag. So if the flag is off, then the check does not happen. Simultaneously on the client side this same flag controls the display of the UI that allows users to fill out this new field. The issue now lies in our Cypress test, we can test client side with this UI disabled for a specific user, but on server side it may be enabled by default for that user. The test fails because client side expects the server not to check for this field since this feature flag is off and UI is hidden.

There are a couple solutions for this:

> - We default all tests that run into check to have the flag on. In the example above, all tests that will hit the server side check will have the UI enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We default all tests that use the flag to have the flag on. In the example above, all tests that will hit the server side check will have the UI enabled.
```

  - This is already being done for the time being. 
  - Drawbacks:
    - I could see issues in the future when dealing with complex features behind a flag.
    - We cannot test the app with this feature flag off without manually turning off this flag in LaunchDarkly dashboard.
- We use specific users for these types of tests, where client and server flags must be synced. In the example above, we use `Toph` to test server side feature flags off and `Aang` for serverside feature flags on.
  - The existing code will have to handle account switching for tests as different states have their own data like programs.
  - This allows us to keep our implementation that prevents issues when multiple Cypress tests or manual testing happen at the same time with feature flags.
  - Drawbacks:

>     - Cypress code may get complicated because switching of accounts. Currently, the issue is only on selecting programs as programs are specific to a state, but there may be more features down the road that will complicate this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Cypress code may get complicated due to switching accounts. Currently, the issue is only on selecting programs as programs are specific to a state, but there may be more features down the road that will complicate this.
```

- We switch this with a different implementation that actually calls out to LaunchDarkly to retrieve or set a flag value. [cypress-id-control](https://github.com/bahmutov/cypress-ld-control) looks like a promising library that does this.
  - This would solve the issue with syncing, since we would be calling out to LaunchDarkly to set our flag values.
  - Drawbacks:

>     - We are making actual request to LaunchDarkly for every cypress run which may matter if we are limited in number requests. Before the implementation with request stubbing we were consistently over the limit on requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - We are making actual request to LaunchDarkly for every cypress run which may matter if our account limits the number of requests we can make. Before the implementation with request stubbing we were consistently over the limit on requests.
```

>     - We are not completely sure we can even make calls out to LaunchDarkly from the cypress code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - We are not completely sure we can even make calls out to LaunchDarkly from the cypress code in CI.
```

    })
  ```

## Adding and removing feature flags

> Adding a new feature flag for testing is automatically done once you add the flag into list of flags in the `flags.ts` constants file located in `app-web/src/common-code/featureFlags`. Removing the flag from `flags.ts` can be done by removing it from the list. **For testing purposes we should not be removing or adding feature flags specifically for testing.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding a new feature flag for testing is automatically done once you add the flag into the list of flags in the `flags.ts` constants file located in `app-web/src/common-code/featureFlags`. Removing the flag from `flags.ts` can be done by removing it from the list. **We should not be removing or adding feature flags specifically for testing.**
```

Reviewer 2: Can you say more about the bold-ed text - why not?

Author: I think I could have worded the bold text better. 

My thought was that this section of the text is just to give more context on how/where feature flags are added and removed. The reason for the bold text is to clarify the feature flags in `flags.ts` should not be edited specifically for the tests. Mainly removing flags or changing default values. Because all the LaunchDarkly testing implementations rely on those flags and default value for configuration. A change would cause many tests fail.

It's not super important because then you would have failing tests to let you know not to change those defaultValues.

    })
  ```

## Adding and removing feature flags

> Adding a new feature flag for testing is automatically done once you add the flag into list of flags in the `flags.ts` constants file located in `app-web/src/common-code/featureFlags`. Removing the flag from `flags.ts` can be done by removing it from the list. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See discussion of [feature flag lifecycles.](https://github.com/CMSgov/managed-care-review/blob/main/docs/technical-design/launch-darkly-feature-flag-lifecycles.md)
```

I think this is covered in a different doc.

> **We should not be editing the `flag`s and `defaultValues` contained in `flags.ts` specifically for testing feature flags.** Because configuration of all the LaunchDarkly testing implementation heavily rely on these values, any change would cause many tests to fail. **Ideally we would only add, remove or edit them when application code relating to those flags changes.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**We should not be editing the `flag`s and `defaultValues` contained in `flags.ts` for testing feature flags.**  The `flag.ts` file is meant to be edited only in relation to Launch Darkly configuration or application code changes,  not for tests.
```

> 

Author: @haworku Just went into some. more details on why not to change those values for testing.
